Welcome to the next section of this course.
In this section, we take a look at selenium web driver weights and understand what they're about,
why we use them, and why they are useful.
So what is the purpose of waste?
So most web applications today are built using JavaScript or EAX, which stands for asynchronous JavaScript.
An example.
When a page is loaded by the browser, the elements which you want to interact with may load at different
times.
If we try and locate an element that has yet to load, we may receive a elements not visible exception
error message.
Selenium weights allows us to wait until a certain time or condition is met before checking to see if
the elements is present.
So in this flowchart, I demonstrate how a way it operates.
So if we start at a starting point, a test script executes and instructs the browser to go to URL.
The page begins to load.
And in this particular case, we're looking for a button with an idea of parts of one.
It then checks to see if a white is present.
If it's not present, then it checks to see if the elements is present.
If the element isn't present, then it throws an element of not visible perception.
If the elements is present, then it will interact with the elements.
But if we go back to this point here, is that a white presence?
If there is, then it checks to see if the elements has loaded.
If it hasn't, then Texas.
See if the weight has expired.
If the wait hasn't expired, then tries to see if the elements has loaded and this cycle will continue
until the weight has expired.
If the weight has expired and it hasn't been able to find the elements, it would then throw elements
not visible exception.
If the elements had loaded it would then interact with the element.
So basically a wait is useful for elements which take a while to load.
So if you think if there was a load, a page on a web page and that loader took a few seconds to load.
If we execute our tests without a wait present, our test might try to interact with an element before
the page is finished.
Loaded.
We've wait.
We can wait until the elements, his presence before we try and interact with it.
So to conclude, whites allow our tests to wait until an element is loaded before interacting with it.
There are different types of weights available, and I would explain these in the upcoming lectures.
He will likely use some weights far more than others.
And the reason for that will come apparent in the future.
Lectures.
Thank you for watching.